# Concepts

## Parts of a song

Song
: A discrete creative endeavour, such as an arrangement, sketch, 8-bar loop, jam, live recording template, or musical experiment. A song is always associated with at least one song file on the Deluge.

Song file
: A file on the SD card that stores all of the information about a song.

Track
: A single instrument or layer in a song. Each track is either an audio track or an instrument track. An instrument track is either a kit instrument track or a melodic instrument track (synth, MIDI, CV). Tracks contain one or more clips.

Track preset file
: A preset file can be saved for synth, kit and MIDI instrument tracks. A preset file contains track information configured in a clip (such as base parameter values, synth engine settings, kit drum information, samples used), but not all track information. For example, note sequences and parameter automation sequences are not saved in the track preset file (that information is only saved as part of the song file). 

Clip
: A unique instance of a track that stores information required to generate an output (for example, samples, note sequences, parameter automation sequences, and other track settings). Each clip is either an audio clip or an instrument clip. Each instrument clip is either a melodic instrument clip (synth, MIDI, CV) or a kit instrument clip.

Section
: In session mode, a section groups clips from separate tracks together so that they can be launched together. A clip can only belong to one section. Sections have settings that dictate the number of times a section should playback before stopping or moving to the next section.

Sample
: An audio file that can be played back as part of an audio clip or sequenced as part of an instrument clip.

Instrument Clip Row
: A unique sequencer instance that is associated with a specific drum (for kit instrument clips) or note pitch (for melodic instrument clips). The instrument clip row contains information on the notes programmed into the sequencer. The instrument clip row also contains information on sequence length and the direction that the sequence should playback.

Drum
: A unique instance of a kit instrument clip row that is associated with a sequence to generate an output. A drum is either an audio drum (synthesizer or sample) or non-audio drum (MIDI, Gate). 

Note
: The name of an event that can be programmed in an instrument clip row in order to generate audio (for example, a synthesized sound or sample) or non-audio (for example, MIDI, CV, Gate) output. Each note has specific parameters that determine when and how a note is to be triggered (e.g. note position, note velocity, note probability, note iterance, note fill, note lift). 

Parameter
: The name of an adjustable value, such as LPF Frequency, Reverb Room Size, or OSC1 Level, that can be manipulated and saved as part of a clip and which influence the output generated by that clip. Parameters do not generate an output on their own. A trigger, such as the playback of a sample (in an audio clip) and a note event in an instrument clip, is required in order for parameters to impact the output of a clip. Some parameters can be modulated and automated. Format the name of the parameter like `LPF Frequency` and use the abbreviated name. Refer to the Parameter Abbreviations Table. 

Output
: The information stored in a clip (samples, notes, parameters) generates an output. An output either generates audio (synthesizer sound or sample) or non-audio (MIDI, CV, Gate).

## Modes

Modes provide different ways of working with tracks and clips and contain the configuration settings for which tracks and clips are playing at any given time. They are mutually exclusive, meaning only one mode can be played at a time. Each mode is associated with a View which is the user interface for configuring the mode. 

Arranger Mode
: Allows you to arrange a song chronologically from beginning to end using Arranger View. Each track is represented by a single row on a timeline. The clips for a given track are placed in sequence from left to right.

Session Mode
: Allows you to work with tracks and clips using two main Session View layouts: Rows and Grid.

## Views

Arranger View
: The user interface for interacting with Arranger Mode

Session Rows View and Session Grid View
: The user interfaces for interacting with Session Mode 

Audio Clip View
: The user interface for interacting with Audio Clips

Melodic Instrument Clip View
: The user interface for interacting with Melodic Instrument Clips (Synth, MIDI, CV)

Kit Instrument Clip View
: The user interface for interacting with Kit Instrument Clips

Melodic Instrument Keyboard View
: The user interface for interacting with Melodic Instrument Keyboard Layouts
: Includes several layouts: isomorphic, in-key, chord, chord library

Kit Instrument Keyboard View
: The user interface for interacting with Kit Instrument Keyboard Layouts
: Includes the Drum Velocity layout

Automation View
: the user interface for interacting with Parameter and Note automation for Arranger and Track Parameters

Performance View
: the user interface for interacting with Project Master Parameters

## Menus

The user interface for interacting with various project settings.

## File Browser

The user interface for loading and saving compatible files (e.g. project file, preset file, midi device definition file).

## Harware controls

The controls built into the Deluge hardware that enable a user to interact with the Deluge device.

Controls include: Buttons, Pads, Encoders
