# Deluge style guide

This Deluge-specific style guide defines how to refer to project parts, modes, views, controls, and display elements.

## Parts of a project

Project
: A discrete creative endeavour, generally aligned with one (but sometimes several) project files on the Deluge. Note: Avoid using the word "song" unless referring specifically to Song Mode. "Project" is a broader term that captures sketches, 8-bar loops, jams, live recording templates, experiments, and more in addition to the idea of a "song" with a beginning, middle, and end.

Project file
: A file on the SD card that stores all of the information about a project. Use this only when referring to specific technical concepts to do with the file system or stored data. For general usage, use "project", such as saving or deleting a project.

Track
: A single instrument or layer in a project. Each track is either an audio track or an instrument track. An instrument track is either a kit instrument track or a melodic instrument track (synth, MIDI, CV). Tracks contain one or more clips. NOTE: Don't use "track" to mean song or project, such as "track tempo". Use "project tempo".

Track preset file
: A preset file can be saved for synth, kit and MIDI instrument tracks. A preset file contains track information configured in a clip (such as base parameter values, synth engine settings, kit drum information, samples used), but not all track information. For example, note sequences and parameter automation sequences are not saved in the track preset file (that information is only saved as part of the project file). 

Clip
: A unique instance of a track that stores information required to generate an output (for example, samples, note sequences, parameter automation sequences, and other track settings). Each clip is either an audio clip or an instrument clip. Each instrument clip is either a melodic instrument clip (synth, MIDI, CV) or a kit instrument clip.

Sample
: An audio file that can be played back as part of an audio clip or sequenced as part of an instrument clip.

Instrument Clip Row
: A unique sequencer instance that is associated with a specific drum or note pitch. The instrument clip row contains information on the notes programmed into the sequencer. The instrument clip row also contains information on sequence length and the direction that the sequence should playback.

Drum
: A unique instance of a kit instrument clip row that is associated with a sequence to generate an output. A drum is either an audio drum (synthesizer or sample) or non-audio drum (MIDI, Gate). 

Note
: The name of an event that can be programmed in an instrument clip row in order to generate audio (for example, a synthesized sound or sample) or non-audio (for example, MIDI, CV, Gate) output. Each note has specific parameters that determine when and how a note is to be triggered (e.g. note position, note velocity, note probability, note iterance, note fill, note lift). 

Parameter
: The name of an adjustable value, such as LPF Frequency, Reverb Room Size, or OSC1 Level, that can be manipulated and saved as part of a clip and which influence the output generated by that clip. Parameters do not generate an output on their own. A trigger, such as the playback of a sample (in an audio clip) and a note event in an instrument clip, is required in order for parameters to impact the output of a clip. Some parameters can be modulated and automated. Format the name of the parameter like `LPF Frequency` and use the abbreviated name. Refer to the Parameter Abbreviations Table. 

Output
: The information stored in a clip (samples, notes, parameters) generates an output. An output either generates audio (synthesizer sound or sample) or non-audio (MIDI, CV, Gate).

## Modes

Modes provide different ways of working with tracks and clips. They are mutually exclusive, meaning only one mode can be used at a given time. 

Arranger Mode
: Allows you to arrange a song chronologically from beginning to end. Each track is represented by a single row on a timeline. The clips for a given track are placed in sequence from left to right.

Song Mode
: Allows you to work with tracks and clips using two main views: Rows View and Grid View.

## Views

#### Names

- Rows View
- Grid View
- Audio Clip View
- Melodic Instrument Clip View
- Kit Instrument Clip View
- Keyboard View
- Automation View
- Performance View

### Style

- Capitalize view names
- Don't use bold unless referring to the text that appears on the display

## Keyboard layouts

#### Names

- isomorphic
- in-key
- chord
- chord library
- drum velocity

### Style

- Don't capitalize keyboard layout names
- Don't use bold unless referring to the text that appears on the display
- Follow with "keyboard" or "layout" depending on the context

!!! example
    - Enter the sequence, then go back to the chord keyboard.
    - To change to the isomorphic keyboard layout, press **Shift** and turn **Select**.

## Display elements and Menus

- When referring to elements on the OLED display or locations of elements in menus, use **bold** and Title Case.
- When referring to elements on the 7SEG display, use `code` and match the capitalization on the display.

    !!! example "Examples"
        - Open Settings and go to **Defaults** > **Automation**, and enable **Nudge Note**.
        - Open Settings and go to `dEFA` > `AUTo`, and enable `nUdG`.

## Buttons and controls

- Use **bold** and Title Case for physical buttons and knobs.

### Buttons and pads

#### Names

- **Level/Pan**
- **Cutoff/Res**
- **Attack/Release**
- **Delay Time/Amount**
- **Sidechain/Reverb**
- **Mod Rate/Depth**
- **Stutter/Custom 1**
- **Custom 2/Custom 3**
- **Affect Entire**
- **Song**
- **Clip**
- **Synth**
- **Kit**
- **MIDI**
- **CV**
- **Keyboard**
- **Scale**
- **Cross Screen**
- **Back/Undo**
- **Load**
- **Save**
- **Learn/Input**
- **Tap Tempo**
- **Sync-Scaling**
- **Triplets View**
- **Play**
- **Record**
- **Shift**

#### Style

- Use "pad" for any of the square buttons in the 8x16 or 8x2 grid.
- Use "sidebar" for the group of 8x2 pads on the right side of the device.
- Use the following for pad and button action timings:
    - Use "tap" for fast (<1 second) actions
    - Use "press" for regular actions
    - Use "hold" for long actions

!!! example "Examples"
    - Tap **Shift** to turn on Sticky Shift.
    - Press **Shift** and **Kit** to create a new drum kit.
    - From Edit Mode, hold the green pad to temporarily enter Launch Mode and tap a clip to launch it. Release the green pad to go back to Edit Mode.

### Knobs

#### Names

- **Upper**
- **Lower**
- **Select**
- **◀ ▶**
- **▼▲**
- **Tempo**
- **Output Level**

#### Style

- Use "turn" and "press" for knob actions.
- When direction matters for a turn, use "clockwise" and "counter-clockwise".

### Control combinations

- Use "and" for simultaneous actions.
- Use "then" for actions that happen in series.

!!! example "Examples"
    - To create a new kit, press **Shift** and **Kit**.
    
    - To clear automations for the clip, press **Lower** and **Back/Undo**.

    - To zoom out, press and turn **◀ ▶** counter-clockwise.

    - To change to the isomorphic keyboard layout, press **Shift** and turn **Select**.

    - To map MIDI channel 1 to the Synth Clip, press **Learn** and **AuditionPad** and play a MIDI note on channel 1.

    - To load a preset, press **Load** and **Synth**. Turn **Select** to change the preset, then press **Select** to load it.

## Parameters

## Modulation mappings

`Source1 -> Destination`  
`Source2 -> (Source1 -> Destination)`

Use `->` to refer to a source to destination modulation depth, or to refer to the source to destination mapping itself. Use abbreviated versions of the source and destination names. When referring to modulating the modulation depth of an existing source to destination mapping, use parenthesis around the existing mapping.

!!! example "Examples"
    - Increase `LFO2 -> OSC1 Transpose` from 10 to 20 to modulate OSC1 frequency across a wider range. 
    - Play a note while turning up the modulation depth for `LFO2 -> OSC1 Transpose`. 
    - Adjust the `ENV2 -> (LFO2 -> OSC1 Transpose)` modulation depth to have `ENV2` control how much `LFO2` affects `OSC1 Transpose`. 
    - `MIDI CC2 -> OSC1 Transpose` refers to `MIDI CC2` controlling `OSC1 Transpose`. 
